[Term Entry] Python Strings `.maketrans()` method (#3623)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/strings/terms/maketrans/maketrans.md

---

> Title: '.maketrans()'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'maketrans()'

```

> Description: 'Used to construct the transition table.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a transition table based on the given strings.'

```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.maketrans()`** method is used for creating a translation table that can be used to perform character replacements or translations in strings. This method is particularly useful when you want to replace specific characters or substrings with other characters, or when you want to remove certain characters from a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`maketrans()`** method is used for creating a translation table that can be used to perform character replacements or translations in strings. This method is particularly useful when there is a need to replace specific characters or substrings with other characters, or to remove certain characters from a string.

```

## Syntax

```pseudo
string.maketrans(x,y,z)
```

- `x`: A string containing characters to be replaced.
- `y`: A string containing characters with which `x` needs to be replaced.
- `z`: A string containing characters to be deleted.

> The `.maketrans()` method returns a translation table, which can then be used with the `.translate()` method to perform the actual translations or replacements in a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `maketrans()` method returns a translation table, which can then be used with the `translate()` method to perform the actual translations or replacements in a string.

```

## Examples

> This example shows the use of `.maketrans()` mathod to replace characters in a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the use of `maketrans()` method to replace characters in a string.

```

```python
trans_table = str.maketrans('aeiou', '12345')

str = "hello world"
newstr = str.translate(trans_table)
print(newstr)
```

This code will result in the following output:

```shell
h2ll4 w4rld
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following code is runnable and uses the `.maketrans()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code is runnable and uses the `maketrans()` method.

```

```codebyte/python

> trans_table = str.maketrans('aeiou', '12345', 'l')

Reviewer: This is the same example as above. We do not include duplicates within and entry, ideally every example should be demonstrating some new functionality of the method. Please revise the example or delete it
